---
title: "Version matters: installing tensorflow 2.0 with GPU backend on Windows 10"
layout: post
author: trort
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - ML learning path
tags:
  - Jekyll
  - github-pages
last_modified_at: 2019-11-13
---
The last version of tensorflow I have tried before was version 0.9 running in Docker.
After a while away from it, I tried to install the latest and greatest version on my desktop.
It seems to work.
<!--more-->

Most of the processes was following [this guide](https://medium.com/@ab9.bhatia/set-up-gpu-accelerated-tensorflow-keras-on-windows-10-with-anaconda-e71bfa9506d1).
It was on an earlier version so I actually fall in some traps with the later versions.
The lesson learned is: stick with the documented version and do not try the latest.

The process:
1. Download and install anaconda.
1. Download and install Visual Studio.
Somehow CUDA needs this in the installation process. TF 2.0 only supports CUDA 10.0 which seems to require VS 2015. However, I installed VS 2019, ignored the _warning_, and nothing bad happened so far.
1. Install NVIDIA GPU drivers.
CUDA 10.0 requires 410.x or higher.
1. Install CUDA 10.0.
The version matters! I tried 10.1 first and then realized tf does not support the new version yet.
CUDA 10.1 even changed the directory name to confuse tf.
1. Download the latest version of cuDNN SDK that supports CUDA 10.0.
And copy the files to CUDA directory.
1. Add the CUDA directories to system environment.
Assuming CUDA is installed in `C:\Program Files\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v10.0`, you should run:
```
SET PATH=C:\Program Files\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v10.0\bin;%PATH%
SET PATH=C:\Program Files\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v10.0\extras\CUPTI\libx64;%PATH%
SET PATH=C:\Program Files\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v10.0\include;%PATH%
```
You _may need_ to restart now.
1. FINALLY install tensorflow.
This is as simple as running `pip install tensorflow` in conda (before google updates tf to a new version).
You may also want to create a new conda environment first.
1. Verify that GPU can be used.
Simply run `tf.test.is_gpu_available()`. Or get more details by running
```
from tensorflow.python.client import device_lib
print(tensorflow.python.client.device_lib.list_local_devices())
```
1. DO NOT try to install keras!
I made this mistake, then found tf 2.0 already has keras integrated.
Trying to install keras will only downgrade tf to earlier version with no GPU support.
1. Play with it now!